please welcome to the stage Harry
stebbings founder at 20 VC and Robert
Locker founding partner at Visionaries
Club okay let's just start with some
context on where we invest Rob where do
you invest in this stack how much do you
write check size wise just talk to me
about that first yeah yeah super CH so
we and and thanks so much for having me
great to be here and uh yeah so we
invest we have a seat fund where we go
in pre-seed very early focusing on
European software Founders we have
another early growth microp fund so it's
a 200 million fund where we set the best
product for Founders from our
perspective is not just to build another
leite fund where you compete with great
multistage funds but to complement those
Serb plus rounds with our
entrepreneurial Network the difference
from our LP base compared to other VCS
is that we only have successful
entrepreneurs so we have 25 unicorn
Founders like the founders of uipa Miro
fxb hellofresh so people have built
great digital companies and went through
the Journey and then we have 25 family
entrepreneurs which sounds boring but if
you look at the European economy the and
AR are 90% of the companies are family
business so some of the best companies
like lvmh P Fiat Ferrari they're all
family-owned and they are entrepreneurs
and they're a great enablement actually
for software companies so we want to
bring that into the late stage and uh
that's our strategy okay so today is
going to be completely unlike all the
other structured fors Rob's actually a
really good buddy of mine and uh so
we're just going to shoot the [__] on
some of these slides which are pretty
good actually why don't we start on uh
multi-stage investing it seed a lot of
Founders like ah Excel and index they're
super interested and actually it'll
progress and they might even want to do
the deal at seed and like ah signaling
it doesn't exist how do you feel about
this
buddy I think it's it clearly exists I
think as a funer there's no right or
wrong who you want to partner with right
there are different strategies on how
you want to build your company do you
want to be more aggressive more
risk-taking do you want to be a bit more
like organic I I think the thing is if
you look at the whole Market what
happened in the last three years is that
there have been a tons of multi-stage
funds entering Europe building a new
office so 5 years ago it was Excel index
Atomic B and if few competing and now
you have seoa Nea you have iconic you
have light speeded you have General
catalyst so suddenly you have maybe five
times the amount of multi-stage funds in
London and then I think it was on a
slide just now those funds have raised
their largest funds ever in history so
to be really unfair just top three of
those funds for Founders listening which
ones would you go to multi-age rank them
I think they're again it depends on what
you're looking for at a fund or if you
want to have a GP focused fund Benchmark
is are great address because like they
just have partners that will work with
you they don't have a platform they
won't delegate the work if you're saying
hey look so I'll go with like many great
ones who would you who would you choose
20 VC 20 VC for grow I'll go first sequ
Excel and index yeah they're all good
partners in there in one or the other
way so you won't get me to an answer
because I think it really it depends on
the individual who's taking the board
seat it depends really on what you're
looking for as a Founder do you want to
go into the US market with your software
company do you want to stay in Europe
and I think it's just as a Founder about
finding out out about the DNA who you
want to work with and I won't give you a
recommendation now on on who I like most
I respect all of them a lot to be honest
but it's a different story at seat stage
we were talking about signaling so I
think what I was saying in the beginning
is Ser a has become such a red ocean for
VCS competing to enter the rounds that
it's just very difficult to win deals if
you were a multistage fund 5 years ago
you would maybe have a 50% chance to win
a term sheet in one of your great
Founders right and today you would have
20 funds maybe competing with the term
sheet so your win ratio as a VC firm is
maybe going down to 10% and if others
are even having more momentum it's going
down to 1% so what what are you doing
you're trying to do a seat round so
you're buying optionality you're doing
maybe a 3 million check here a 3 million
check there if you have a billion fund
doesn't hurt you that much but you
basically buy the optionality to pre the
a rounds if things going well if things
don't go well it's just a little
difficult for the funders because if you
have an
aggressive multi-stage Fund in your cap
table everyone knows if you're killing
it they would preempt your next round
they would clearly do the a round that's
certain can give you 10,000 examples
it's just if things are going okay but
not massively great which is normally
the case at the early stages it's going
up and down it's just a bit more
difficult to explain hey there's this
partner David in my Bor from multi-stage
fund X and yeah he likes us he has his
12 15% ownership he saids it's nice he
doesn't need to preempt the round
everyone will call him and then say look
can't be such an amazing deal if you're
not doing it yourself so I think that
that's a little maybe the the tricky
situation to be in I think the corol
question to ask if you're a Founder is
like does this multi-stage fund care
about me enough am I meaningful enough
in proportion to that fund size so it's
like what portion What proportion of
that fund size is this check sub two 2
to 3% honestly it's a total optionality
bet I think you'll probably agree with
me on that I think another thing is one
of the biggest ways that I see companies
get killed in in the vein that you just
said you're doing okay sometimes
actually really good but the principle
in the multi-stage fund left and you're
one of 30 companies and you are orphaned
is the ter where you don't have a
champion in that fund and then actually
you're not going to get the next round
anyway and so you have done well but
you're still in other words in trouble
in that respect and then one sorry is it
really pisses me off we do rounds and
it's 3 million round we do 2.6 and a big
fund says we'll do 200k and the founders
are like oh I really want that big brand
name and I'm like it means nothing to
them they are buying optionality don't
take that money yeah how do you feel
about that yeah I think it's as
mentioned we love partnering with all
those funds and we love them leading the
A and I'm in seed boards with some of
those funds because we also teamed up
with multistage funds at seed and I'm in
many serious AB rounds and if you put in
a 20 million check and you have a
partner of a multistage Fund in that
company that is a meaningful ticket that
partner will work her or his ass off to
make you successful because it's
basically core track record it's really
something maybe one investment that you
do year as a partner on the seat side it
often gets delegated to an associate
which doesn't have to be negative but
it's just like a very different kind of
operating mode so if if you're a
multi-stage fund it's just a different
business model you're doing a few
instest ments you're spending great time
with the fonders you're having a larger
fund size but you can't build a
portfolio of 50 companies then you're
ending up why combinator and that's not
the brand that you want to have as a
multi-stage fund for us as a seed fund
if we're having a 165 million fund we do
a 5 million Investments that's a hell
lot of money for us so whether it's
myself or one of my partners they would
die to make that company in the serious
area on a fundraising success right
because it's a meaningful check if we
lose that and again there's no right or
wrong I think there are funds I admire
crom Benchmark who
smaller like 400 to 500 million funds
that Clearly say we do seed and a and
clearly when they do a seed investment
it's one of 30 Investments they do in
total they are all in with the founders
I think it's a little of a different
thing than if your strategy is oh we
have a seat fund an a fund a growth fund
and you feel it's a little like an
Industrial Pipeline to just over time
build opportunistic ownership in your
best companies which is a smart strategy
but it just comes a little at the cost
of the founders having that exposure we
just had it like a few weeks ago there
there was a company very successfully
raising that had three multi-stage funds
competing or yeah let's say tto last
year you you were also following the
round so there were a lot of multistage
funds putting down a term sheet for an a
round and afterwards in B round that's a
great situation to be in as a Founder if
you have all those logos basically
trying to win you for the a round I
think the tricky part is if you have
already Blue Chip fund a in the cap
table it's a little bit like I think we
have this picture of a towel next to a
pool like I'm from Germany and Germans
when they're on holiday in Maya in the
morning they put a towel next to the
pool uh to reserve the space and then
they go sleeping again and then 4 hours
later uh they basically go back so it's
a little bit putting dips on on the
companies and then you can preempt it
but if what's the ratio is it maybe 15
20% of multistage funds following up on
their seats so I think it's something
interesting to discuss I think these
conversations are best when they're like
super granular and tactical and so I
think like the question to ask if you're
founder is like okay 5 out of 160 how do
you think about initial versus Reserve
checks the reserve is the follow on
Capital that you put subsequent okay so
actually you have a 50/50 so actually
you're 80 80 okay can you talk to me
about a time when you have not followed
on into a company why what would be
those Reasons by the way if they do also
want to do the deal you've also just got
a number of references that you can
speak to which maybe wouldn't be perfect
because you always want to get off sheet
or imperfect references yeah I think
it's really important to ask these
questions and I don't know about you but
I find the best Founders really
interview me yeah yeah yeah look I think
it's as a seed fund it's a bit more easy
because you're more aligned with the
founder because normally the the first
check is the one that matters and then
you know I think there are a lot of
arguments against PR rights right so I
think there are a few funds or Founders
that say why should you have the right
to do PR you need to deserve it I think
there are different models there are
funds like 0.9 who say look if you want
we just give you the promise to do pada
in the next round to avoid any signaling
so they would just do pada in any
company where a Founder wants it so you
avoid that right so there there is no
signaling risk because the seat font
would always follow on we offer the same
to our Founders there are other Founders
take deal from like Alex from deal we
were lucky to do the seat round with my
first fund loveia when Andre and Spark
preempted the and rounds they were
saying look guys PIRA are you kidding me
like we want to do the whole round and
we got really pushed to our limits to be
asked like to do as less as possible to
make that and look and then there are
those um situations when founders are
like if they're not really there's three
scenarios either the founder bloody
kills it then it's a competitive
situation anyway and you would want to
do PR as a seed fund and everyone is
just fighting for the ownership or a
Founder is doing good okay in the middle
that's normally the case and with any
amazing outlier we had in our portfolio
whether it's a dealer Pon or a mural
like they've all gone through those
Journeys they were all not obvious I
think Daniel D was on your podcast when
your iPath has been done I don't know 80
fundraising meetings two years
fundraising Vault Mickey I think
normally companies are in the middle
bucket and that's where there's a lot of
room to we we would always do our full
Prada there because we still know the
company can go into a great direction we
don't know yet but we would also offer
the founder if it's a very aggressive
situation to do a little less than
provider and then there are those
companies where you think obviously
they're maybe not doing that great but
they found an investor that is backing
them where it's a bit also like we would
never talk someone into such a deal I
think it's a bit also the choice then of
the new investor still leading the round
and normally the founders are then of
course asking us to do a certain part of
pada we would always do that we would
maybe optimize a little bit as a fund to
say look is it okay if we do half Pruder
is it okay if we do a certain amount
just to to to give you the confidence to
close the round I think that's auth
honestly how we're trying to handle it
how about yourself are you having a
follow-on reserve strategy with your
receipt F no so we remove signaling so
we don't ever do follow on and so the
reason we don't ever do following no
because the reason is when you actually
look at the data and we have probably
the most data across I think almost
anyone we have 2,700 GP track records
and when you look across that data set
78% of the time reserves are
misallocated the way that we Define
misallocated they don't achieve a 3X
tvpi on paper within a 5year period that
in my mind is a serious opportunity cost
of capital I do do agree with you
signaling risk exists which is why we
take it away by saying we never do it we
always align with you and from this
point on we're totally incentivized to
get you the best next round if you have
actually a very heavy sked Awards
reserves actually we're not aligned
because that new round that you're
getting I don't want it to be that high
because I want to double down and put
more in it's much more beneficial to me
that it's lower also it creates this
really perverse incentive mechanism
where you can't really be that honest
with me because you're always waiting
for the next check I'm like Hey we're in
this together you can hit me with
anything because I'm not writing another
check but we're told if you have a
multi-stage fund that does the seed you
can't come to them that easily and say
oh a head of sales sucks we miss the
quarter we definitely don't have product
Market fit but we'll be coming to you in
three months for the next round yeah
doesn't work and so that's how I
approach it I think it's a great
takeaway by the way also for us fonders
because they're they shouldn't be a Pata
right if I was a founder and I'm
speaking against my own interests a
little as an investor being
opportunistic but why the hell would you
give someone a par right because either
that investor needs to earn it and
really show that they're doing great
work so it's even making the investor
more hungry to show after a seat round
after a round after B round to really
deliver on their promise or you have the
signaling thing which which again puts
you in a negative situation that maybe
existing investors don't do par but in
all the other Deals they do so I think
we should it's somehow in Europe it's
still very existent I think it's fair to
kill Prides I think it's also lazy I
think you're a buyer or you're a seller
and I think Pro Rod is this kind of easy
pass to be supportive yeah which I think
is just lazy thinking actually
yeah good stuff there we go there's
something I wanted to discuss here which
is realizing they don't have bandwidth
and when we think about Venture value ad
it's something we all sell Venture
investors essentially sell cash so we
have to wrap it up differently and
Venture value ad and platforms as they
called are so popular how do you feel
about the platform approach to Value ad
today yeah it's a great question again I
think there is no right or wrong answer
it depends on what you're looking for as
a Founder uh what I can say if if we
take the extremes what what Harry was
mentioning they're on the one super
extreme funds that just give money don't
take a board
seat say that we don't want to get
involved like tiger very relates stage
fair enough and then on the other side
you have those platforms or those early
stage funds that try to be super
involved and really support them I think
among this second category you have
again two very different polls you have
the one that Harry mentioned taken in
dreon and atomico they have a team of I
don't know how many partners that are
just focusing on platform support the
Other Extreme would be someone like
Benchmark who say we don't have anyone
in a platform team we don't delegate
work we do it as a GP I think the way I
would balance it as a Founder is ask
myself I think if you're having a GP
support so imagine you're hiring a VP
sales you're tapping into a new market
you're looking for advice that would be
more like an ownership perspective
because that person is aligned with your
interest to just make your company a
bloody success no matter how so if that
person is doing an interview of your VP
sales that person will like the GP will
grill that person and we'll make sure
it's the right fit if the GP is
delegating to a platform partner it
becomes sometimes a bit more of a
service business because people that are
in platform teams that's the way why we
don't have it as Visionaries and we are
all former Founders we think the best of
the best people out there you can't hire
an a VC firm if you look at our LP base
that we're trying to leverage and you
having the same strategy with 20 VC if
you want to speak to a Daniel D on
International Market expansion or you
want to speak to a hanor Rena from prono
on hey uh how did you build your sales
team if you spend 30 minutes with those
people it's the 10 out of 10 support
that you get and and value that you get
out of this I think the more you
delegate to people who are platform
managers it becomes a bit of a
Consulting service ticking the Box thing
so I sometimes get the impression that
the platform people are more like
scaling the GP time of a fund to make
more Investments than really scaling the
founder time but again I think there are
other Founders who really love those
platforms if you're taken our portfolio
Alex from deal I think he has worked a
lot with inre and they have been a great
support because it has been such a fast
scaling company there are other
companies in our portfolio where it has
been the opposite one last thing I would
say and I would be super curious to get
your take those Founders in our
portfolio that really outperformed were
pretty
independent Founders that really just
were looking if they were looking for
advice they were looking for a 10 out of
10 highly strategic or on the point
advice to answer a certain question as a
funer you have to answer 100 questions a
day or you have to make 100 decisions a
day so I think every second you spend
with a VC firm beyond the money should
be a 10 out of 10 experience not a 5 out
of 10 experience and I think you get
closer to a 10 out of 10 experience if
the GP is giving that support or if like
in our fund structures you make the
introduction to someone who has really
authentically gone through that Journey
so I think summary for my side is both
models can work incredibly well it
depends on how much handholding you want
on how much what you expect from a VC
firm and what's your take that was a too
long monologue you have to interrupt me
no I I think there's three types of
investors there's investors who know a
lot and are very helpful fantastic big
tick in the box there are investors who
know nothing and know they know nothing
and don't do much fantastic big tick in
the Box both great and then there are
the really dangerous investors who think
they know everything but actually know
nothing and want to do a lot big cross
worst of the worst Europe has a lot of
them sadly so I think that and then I
think on the platform spend really dig
into their spend Andre have hundreds
they're actually very deep across every
segment of hiring across every segment
of B2B customer acquisition they are a
machine Insight is the same we have
Insight who've done our companies and it
is a machine that they roll in that is
very impressive the ones where I'm just
highly doubted oh we've got a head of
talent here whatever their name is and
you know what it's complete crap because
you're hiring a CMO or you're hiring a
CTO completely different roles at the
end of the day they just end up
navigating a job spec between different
recruiters or helping you it's not
helpful but we're pretty good at selling
it I would just say though build your
cap table like you do a sports team
everyone has a very specific position a
left back a right back have someone for
PR marketing have one for engineering
recruiting have one for fundraising have
one for pre-product Market fit customer
Discovery and then for each different
thing you have these outsourced kind of
weapons that you can utilize really
effectively be very tactical about how
you build your cap table yeah no I think
that makes a lot of sense but really two
little things to add on the one hand
side like we we don't work that much
with search firms like for at least
management hires if again it's a service
that they give you it's not an owner in
your company that is really trying to
get you the best best Senior Management
candidate it's different if you're
looking for AES or if you're scaling the
overall team but if you're really
looking for the best it can open up the
funnel but I think it's just if you look
at the distribution of candidates we
think if it's really the GP putting a
lot of time of it sometimes the quality
is a little higher the other thing is I
think it heavily depends on stage so at
seat stage if you take a Kristof from
point. n it's an amazing partner like he
would be very hands on the spot I guess
every half an hour you spent with him
will be amazing and then maybe at a
serious a stage you work with a luchana
and the board from SE or it can be
anyone from Excel or index or any of the
other great funds sometimes then when
you've built your board let's say you
have Harry and kristofh Jans in the
board and you have a great multistage
Fund in the board and then you're
raising your serious C or D the question
is like what exact support do you need
is it maybe US market entry do you need
a platform in the US or is it maybe
really just the money that's why I think
at the later stages we we really see
sometimes the support angle relevance
declining and it's it's more like
raising money at better efficient
economics than having another partner
that takes a super handson role in the
board yeah I mean I always want to roll
off the board I think as you said you
shouldn't have five investors on the
board who generally don't add that much
of a different perspective if at the
series B there not that much use for me
to be there really if the founder wants
it fine but absolutely I don't think we
should stay on the board in perpetuity
and a lot want it for brand or or
whatever I don't think that's necessary
yeah I think it's important to take
eagle out of the equation ASC to venture
be happy to leave aboard let's talk
about this one I like this one there's
companies that just get hot you
mentioned Taco earlier this was
successive rounds insanely quickly
extremely high
prices just talk to me about how you see
this one where there's incredible heat
for a very few number of companies and
then what about the rest yeah I think
this is a really interesting one and
hopefully we'll have a long discussion
about it because it has so many angles
Let Me Maybe start with one angle and
it's at least how we perceive it if you
look at 200 2021 like the let's say
bubble boom times if you imagine there's
a left door and a right door and the
left door is maybe the uh top 10%
companies and the right door are the 90%
remaining companies which can be amazing
it can be the top top 25% to 40%
whatsoever I got the impression that in
this bubble time funds just went through
both doors a lot so there was a lot of
funding left and right in companies that
maybe didn't have the metrics yet but
got preempted uh a bit of for more I got
the impression and it's something sad
and I'm sure you can add to this that in
the last one and a half to two years
there is more than enough capital in the
market we never had more capital for
software companies there haven't been
many Investments but those Investments
that had been done I got the impression
every fund suddenly just wanted to go
through this left top 10% door of great
performing companies that were absolute
outliers with metrics and the valuations
went insane so if we just take a few of
our portfolio companies Pik Mano but
there are many others like deep L Yan is
here with with Y also or Penny Lane I
think great companies amazing
performance but the valuations are
insane right so my takeaway is a little
bit what has happened a lot of funds
suddenly just everyone just wants to do
Insane outlier quality and it has become
quite difficult for some of the maybe
top 25% companies or top 30% companies
there are still amazing size businesses
great opportunities that were a little
left aside oh yeah let's wait and
difficult Market times let's see how
they play out but but but what's your
take I'm losing all my friends in this
talk I I I I just think investors are
incredibly lazy as to how they Define
attractive markets like I I always laugh
that my all my investments are in the
world's best Founders in the world's
most unpopular VC Market maret and I'm
perfectly happy for that I don't care
that other investors don't find my
market attractive generally they're very
good businesses that make money pretty
quickly yeah and so I don't really care
I think there's an element though to
unpack there which is like there is a
question mark around incentive
mechanisms of investors and if you don't
own your firm you do actually have to
think a little bit about that if you are
a strategic person in a multi-stage fund
getting into one of these hot deals is
what's going to get you the promotion
doing the slightly off the bead and
track but amazing company that might
take three or four years to get to
product Market fit or is very deep in
the infrastructure build ah you're not
going to get that promotion so you've
got to think about the Strategic
incentives of the people making those
Investments and that's why I also really
like and I always push people work with
the founders of firms they ain't leaving
number one you're not going to get
orphaned they're not afraid to take
these courageous bets they're not
getting fired by other partners so I
think we're just quite lazy to Define
hot markets and I think that drives a
lot of the concentration of capital to a
very small number yeah I think it's a
great point because it's something bad
about our VC industry and what we
discussed 50 minutes ago there are many
funds maybe 60 70% of the multi-stage
funds now based in London just have
moved over in the last few years and
they had to recruit people from Europe
that would lead their practices but
there are not that many VCS that you
could hire that that have built a track
record or or have a lot of experience so
it's of course easier and I think it's a
bit of a misalignment of interest to
just do Blue Chip deals that are hyped
in the market trying to win it I think
the best of the best VCS and some of the
best deals ever are those that are in
this other door that are not obvious
that are left unpack those if we
actually look at them which is in Europe
like vault as you said how many
rejections did Mickey get insane it's
one of the best companies Mickey one of
the best fonders I think they got 80
rejections all the standard VC talk yeah
you never get a delivery model
profitable I give you 10 more uipath
Daniel out of Bucharest back then many
people saying ah he has done this 10
years so standard VC would say oh didn't
scale in the last 10 years and looks
very manual mro one of the best
companies ever out of Europe doing
several hundred million in AR founded in
the little city of per in the middle of
nowhere Andre an amazing founder and
also not really obvious one you can
continue so it's basically we're now
talking about the best outliers we have
in Europe you argue that more
proportionally of the biggest outcomes
have been in this door than that door
yeah I think both doors are fine I guess
there are two rules you added in your
podcast following the Heat or trying to
identify the own Alpha I think it's
great that both doors can work well I
think as a VC actually the better brand
you can build is the right door right
because that's the non-obvious one if
you pick if you have picked a UI path or
or A Mir at the SE stage or at the early
stage it would have been more of a
differentiator than if you had done uh
the stuff that all the others are doing
but yeah when does price stop you doing
a deal like there are some great
companies too that are on the left side
that you will get the chance to invest
in because of brand access network
whatever that is and when you look at
again we've got great companies here but
I don't know if the numbers are public
but these prices were crazy and when do
you decide [__] it I'm going to do this
and double down or no it's just too high
yeah so I two lenses from my seed
investment perspective so from our seat
fund when we do a deal um we never
really negotiate the price it sounds odd
it's more like we want to have a mutual
understanding with the founder on what
game we want to play and if we're
aligned in how we want to build the
company and how we can be a good partner
so to give an example if there's a
Founder saying hey I have an idea I want
to raise 10 million and and I'm just
amazing and look because I have been a
Serial entrepreneur I'm raising that it
wouldn't be our DNA because we like
humble Founders who are product driv and
sometimes the bit more nerdy ones
sometimes a bit the outliers that for us
it's more the founder thinking about why
would I choose to make a round expensive
or less expensive so on the seat side we
have more Founders actually taking if we
offer a term sheet we're not often the
highest one but going for a term sheet
with us or even saying I want to do a
little lower round because I want to
build my company sustainably I want to
keep optionality I don't want to go into
a loser game whereas sitting on a high
valuation and just work against it so on
the seat side I'd say that it's more
this what we're trying to get to the
ground of so we are doing sometimes an
expensive deal but there are good
arguments from the founders why it makes
sense to raise more money and sometimes
we're passing on a deal at the same
valuation because we got the impression
it doesn't convince us how how the
founder is thinking about it at the
later stages it's a great question
because we're also struggling with with
the market or doing it and I did many
wrong decisions in the past if you look
at some of those companies I said no to
deal so we were seed investors in in in
Pikman tto and I could take deal we
didn't follow on in pigment deal some of
the best companies because we thought it
was too expensive it was wrong right I
think the Great Deals sometimes when you
review that when they get preempted they
are just expensive but it's difficult to
figure out where it's a momentum bet
that can go wrong and where it's just a
great deal when you review that there
just pause there would you do it
differently now they were we're trying
to get better or to judge so we had a
few preemptions again last year and this
year and I think we're just trying to
have an honest discussion in our team
where we think um we're seeing the
upside and I think you have to pay price
points for great companies we're not
value investors we're upside investors
so we're only interested in how big can
it get not that much to make a great
deal but we're also interested in
backing sustainable Founders so if we
are too momentum driven we end up being
a bit of a momentum fund that just puts
in money left and right and I think the
worst thing that can happen and and
that's why it comes down to our quality
of judging is if you pay a high
valuation in a deal that is just doing
average because then you're building a
portfolio of companies and that was the
trap in 2021 22 so we all drank a little
bit of this too much of this wine that
where it just has been a high valuation
maybe not the perfect SAS growth metrics
and the companies are doing nice but
they're not really a VC Cas so I guess
that's what we need to balance and
sometimes we'll be right sometimes we'll
be wrong in those companies I regret it
I think the big mistake that I see
actually Founders make on constructing
rounds is their thoughts on dilution and
how the Venture business works like if
you come to a venture Market with a 10%
dilution round you're not going to get
the best Venture investors in the world
to partner with you because you're going
to be giving it Max 8% away CU there
going to be 2% for Angels maybe even
less maybe 7% 1% existing 2% for new
Angels whatever that is you're not going
to get the best that is the problem with
these like low dilution rounds now don't
get me wrong they can work you can do
angel rounds you can have people who
aren't ownership but like the true tier
one Partners who Founders want as
Venture investors you're not going to
get I'm just intrigued to hear how your
thoughts with that in mind on ownership
and how you think about that yeah I
think as a founder and we discussed 10
minutes ago the value ad that you expect
from a and I think there are two things
that should go into this the one is like
the value angle I would always at the
early stages just go for the best
partner not that much optimized for 2%
more or less dilution because it's more
you're up building a 10 billion plus
software company and you want to get any
ingredients on board to make that happen
which is already very unrealistic it is
already something of a massive act so I
would try to get on board the bloody
best ingredients in terms of an Angel
and investor to help help me build the
upside and not M for 2% more or less
because it's more about what you get
there the other thing is I'm personally
biased totally against like aggressive
pricing or raising massive rounds
because I think
they're like it feels nice for one or
two days after closing the round for the
founder that you did this amazing deal
and you have 7even years Runway or
whatsoever but I think it just comes
with downsides because
you the the first thing is you're
sitting on a high valuation you're
turning a winner game into a loser game
because basically sitting on a high
valuation means you constantly work
against proving that you can grow into
it it's a daily pressure on top that
takes your optionality I think having
optionality as a Founder is the best
situation you can be in if things go
amazing you can always accelerate and
raise more if things go bad you have the
flexibility to do a bridge round to take
in more money from great investors if
things go medium you have the option if
you're sitting on a bloody High
valuation and look at all those
companies in the last two years SAS
companies that had to raise down rounds
like that's something terrible to do
your employee is the most important
ingredient if you have a high valuation
High strike price for your EO like the
people will leave the smartest people
are smart that make the dent in your
company they will understand what
valuation you're at so and they all
leaving yeah they are starting to leave
or they're starting to question look we
just had a medium year maybe we grow x%
uh so maybe 50% below what we wanted to
grow the valuation is high maybe I go to
this other company at the earlyer stage
where the valuation is lower because how
how should we grow into this it takes
three years for us to grow into the
valuation another 3 years to make money
that's six years for myself so you lose
your best employees or you have to
reprise which again is not something
nice the third thing is something hidden
which we really see with every hard
learnings we had with pricey seat rounds
if you have more money as a Founder
you're not as diligent with the first
employees and hires that you do you're
more aggressive on hiring and you're
starting to compromise on quality if you
can only hire five people and that's all
the money you can spend you will sleep
three four five nights be up at night to
think about should I do this one hire
and those five or 10 people are
automatically the next 100 people that
you hire because they will so it's
destroying the culture in many companies
if you have this momentum oh yeah and I
got a VP marketing fast VP customer
success done because I have the money
and if it doesn't work I can rehire
suddenly you have 50 hires that they've
made
which is maybe I don't know 60% of your
employee base and then you feel that's
not our culture it's not the right
people and the last thing is sorry super
long monologue if we look at the later
stages for every billion in valuation
that you add if you take a 10x multiple
which is already generous taking Public
Market 6X multiples you need to add 100
million AR so take a normal round even
if you have two to three years Runway
and if you're adding 1 billion as a
valuation that is too aggressive you
have to add 100 million in
to justify that valuation increase in
that point of time if you don't do that
and the market is not as nice as it was
the last two years you're just having
trouble but how do you think about it
I've done 170 investments in 10 years uh
and we analyzed performance across them
and according to actually how much they
raised at the seed and consistently the
worst performing companies raised 5
million or more at the seed round it
consistently SE it is just absolutely
the clearest signal you have it's slows
down all urgency as you said there
fundamentally people do too many things
at the same time they are not focused
they do a second Country Way Too Soon a
second Channel way too soon customer
Discovery whatever let's just uniform by
far the worst and then also when you do
five on 25 you know you take away the
ability to actually do the next round at
25 the best is to do three on 12 or
three on 15 and then actually if it
doesn't go that well you can still raise
like four on 20 when you raise five on
25 you got to hit it a really good
heuristic to Think Through is I need to
3x every round so if my price is 20 now
in a 12 Monon time period cuz you're
going to fundraise generally for 18
months of Runway generally speaking like
broad Strokes you're going to go out in
12 months I need to be at 60 then can I
see that and if you can't see that when
you're going G you're going to open up a
world of pain because it really damages
employee morale when they don't feel
like they're moving fast so I think
that's really important it's spot on
advice I think it's exactly interesting
that you have those metrics maybe you
can publish them on on SAS or you can
publish them to me in an email no it's I
think one thing to to add on top is
which I forgot now but I'll get to it
I'm sure in a second speaking about we
spoke about raising too much
optionality about price points every
found is just oh I'll put the money
aside I'll put the money aside I know I
raise too much yeah they never do Parker
Conrad from ripling I always have this
beef on Twitter and he's argues me
you're wrong and you can put the money I
said yeah 100% you can but barely anyone
is Parker the majority you just get a
little bit looser on what you can do
yeah that's a luxury hard but [__] it we
can do it I give you one funny example
that I led with a Founder it's actually
it's on the slide so it's a contra
example but office of Founders
interestingly what we have a massive
correlation
between an anti-correlation between how
nice the office looks oh and how good
the company is performing so here's the
thing I had a conversation with a
Founder a week ago who said look we
we're going into a mediocre office
because we're an early stage company
we're doing well we've raised a lot of
of money but we want to give the people
every employee the impression that we've
not made it yet that you're hungry every
day that you built this company into
something absolutely insane but we're
not there yet we're not retiring yet if
you give your employees the feeling that
we have the most luxury office with 20
coffee machines and and kickers and take
the Elon Musk example of going into
Twitter your employees will feel like
I'm on top of things I've reached
everything will just make them a little
less hungry it's just one argument of a
Founder but it also
creates how [__] it they can afford it
and so when it comes to also like
salaries and bonuses and well [__] it
you can spend that on a coffee machine
why can't I have this yeah I'd much
rather invest in the team yeah and I
think it's also aligning which people do
you want to have do you want to have
people that really get their hands dirty
and build a great or do you want to have
those people uh you know that want to
have a great office I mean it doesn't
mean like of course get a great office
but make sure you get it at the right
stage and the right uh kind of
expectation management one last thing to
close that chapter I would forget about
everything we just said and just be a
founder and build the company the way
you want to build it I think there is
far too much hype about what do VCS
expect at what stage and what would one
do to raise an A or be around you're an
entrepreneur there are thousand ways to
build a great SAS companies some of them
haven't even raised a lot of money
there's a company called Kima or it was
called Asia inspection the founder has
built a billion dollar plus software
company he hasn't raised any amount of
money so just think about what do you
need what money do you need what support
do you need how can you be a great
entrepreneur and don't listen too much
of what thousand people would tell you
to do I think it's know when you're Walt
Disney and know when you're Jordan
Belford and what do I mean by that Walt
Disney is tell me this story make it
magical and make it wonderful that's
your preceding your seed and then you
need to know when to sell me the pen
yeah and there is a very rude transition
between the two that I think will catch
people up and I think people are seeing
that now which is why it's often easier
to raise pre-launch than it is post
launch pre-launch you can still be Walt
Disney next you're Jordan bford and I
just think it's really important to
recognize when that transition is yeah
do you find that too yeah I think it's
also has changed a little bit in the
last uh two or three years right so I
think 3 years ago four years ago people
would raise an a maybe with not that
much traction and you would be wal
Disney do you buy this this slide or the
metrics so so these are just metrics
it's a an average of our portfolio so we
have different quartiles of company
performance and a few other VC funds who
have shared data with us so it's a bit
what we how we classify VC cases it
doesn't have to do with you can build an
amazing software company that grows 30%
year-over-year make this a family
business or but if you want to be
aggressive in the VC Shark Tank I guess
this is a little bit different metri
categories that we that we see as an
orientation for the Ser a
stage do you invest through this do you
invest through this lens no so we we're
investing C and series B so this is more
when we get our companies prepared for
an a round like from those conversations
they have with
funds this is not like what we think is
great it's more like what the market
represents and which companies convert
in raising Sera rounds
fast medum fast and maybe not and if
companies I think it has just changed a
little bit that there is more focus on
metrics there's more Focus I think what
maybe used to be if we take
500k AR maybe three years ago with a
great Walt Disney story and a few great
product references would have been an a
round that many would have many VC funds
would have looked at which today I think
the the corridor has gone more into
something in the direction of 1.5
million to 2.5 million in AR I think
where serus a funds start looking
seriously into into SAS companies one
slide everyone should have on their deck
I think is three reasons why you should
not invest in us today and then say our
I don't know our sales cycle is too slow
give the data our net retention number
is too low give the data and then on the
next slide show a proactive plan as to
how you plan to mitigate each of them
that is the most insightful self-aware
founder who clearly understands their
challenges has a plan to solve them and
is
completely humble enough to accept that
and on top of it no one does that when
I'm like oh cuz we're all thinking oh
[__] that sales cycle sucks no no you've
just addressed it you've not only said
that I get it I see that I see where
your head's at but I see the three ways
that we're going to solve that here yeah
wow that's really impressive
yeah answer the problems that VCS think
before they say them yeah so what we're
trying to do we not always best
preparing the companies but we're trying
to have a monthly check in on where we
stand with this and it starts with a
seat like there there are no metric
you're building the product and you're
seeing two people use the product once
it gets more into a sera normally it's
the case that um some things might look
like outlier but it comes at the cost of
others like if you grow faster normally
your bur multiple is it's fine if your
kind of sales cycle is bloody long fine
if you have a good argument like why
that is the case and how you want to
improve it I think at the series a you
don't need to have an answer to all
those things even if your metrics don't
track I think it helps a little bit to
navigate the coming from a Walt Disney
having a good idea building a product
to graduating a little bit into what
will be important for series BC stage
because at a certain point you need to
look more into metrics and I think these
are the metrics at least I think for a
SAS company so as a human if you do a is
it blood picture is that the English
word if you go to a doctor and he's
telling you oh yeah I looked at your
blood and blood test this is what
tracking good this is average oh you you
should have less cholesterin I think
this is a little like little like a
blood test of a SAS company it tells
something about some health angles but
if Harry had a night out where he drank
like two bottles of wer of course it
would show bad but if you have a good
answer that it was just one night out
because it was the wedding of a friend
then it's fine to understand it if if
this is a recurring pattern over 10
years the You Won't Do Well the company
wouldn't do well if the metrics don't
add up I'm loving these analogies final
one what would be your parting words to
Founders in this fundraising
Market I think it's the best environment
ever that you could have because the
pace of digitization and digital
adoption B2B has never been higher
Europe is home to all those industrial
World Market leaders look at the DNA of
our economy I think it's the biggest
enablement you can have building a SAS
company the capital is there there's
more than enough Capital that has been
raised just be an independent founder
great Founders build great companies
independent of cycles and try to not be
too much in a bubble of what VCS expect
and just try to Define your way to build
the company and you will succeed if
there's a good product there will always
be a pull and you can decide yourself
what fer you want to be do you want to
be a VC driven founder do you want to be
an organic founder in the first years
like Daniel with your iPath
and I think it has never been a better
time to be a Founder what's your take
someone once gave me wise advice like
getting a great round is like finding
the love of your life which is like the
truth be told you should not be the best
way to do it is to work on yourself and
work to be someone that someone else
would want to partner with yeah and it's
the same thing with fundraising work on
yourself make yourself a fantastic
product and work to be that thing that
someone else will partner with who is
also great yeah and I love that analogy
it we've really gone from Jordan Belford
to love at the end but I would say
that's a very strong one we focus too
much on what other people think yeah and
it's like just work on yourself and work
harder than anyone
else that's a great great this has been
really different actually I want it to
be fun and discursive between two
friends and so I hope it's been
enjoyable and thank you so much thank
you for being with us than